gay rights as a movement is primarily
concerned with tolerance for overt
homosexuality overt gay marriage for
example but there's always been this
interesting flipside having to do with
tolerance for covert homosexuality if
you have the right to be homosexual
which in Canada the United States now
you do if you have the right to be in a
gay marriage which in the United States
in Canada you do what then is the status
in our society of gay people who choose
to identify as straight who choose to
lead a double life if you want to say
that that way you choose to adopt a
public identity or persona of pretending
to be heterosexual when they are not do
we tolerate that also or do we judge
that more harshly than before precisely
because we have normalized and embraced
the tolerance of overt homosexuality
does covert homosexuality start to be
regarded as something immoral today is
the day today is June 5th 2020 today is
the day when allegations are sweeping
across the internet that Lindsey Graham
is a homosexual Lindsey Graham is a
conservative Republican politician and
the finger is being pointed at Lindsey
Graham by a man who claims that he has
had sexual relations with and himself
and that man has also stood up on the
Internet figuratively speaking and meet
a call for volunteers he's asked other
men who've had love affairs who have
slept with the senator to also stand up
and either provide some evidence or at
least testified the effect that yes
indeed Lindsey Graham is homosexual that
he has been living some kind of double
life that he has been living a lie I'm
reminded of a kind of often told
anecdote in anthropology I never read
this thesis myself I never read the
study myself but it is commonly said in
anthropology classrooms and universities
around the world
there was an anthropologist who wrote
about culture and society of Ireland
modern Ireland contemporary 'ln
who observed basically that in Ireland
many homosexuals we're living incredibly
miserable lives because they chose to
have a Christian identity rather than a
gay identity they chose mmm for the sake
of their family out of some strange
sense of pride and a sense of not
wanting to let down maybe their parents
and cousins and what-have-you and even
maybe out of a sense of national
identity but they they chose to live the
lie of pretending to be straight and
continuing to participate in the church
because a lot of them cared a lot about
this religious identity and really this
anthropologist was describing they were
closing the door on any possibility of
their own personal happiness they were
ruining their own public lives ruining
ruining their private lives for the sake
of their public lives I should say
something along those lines so that's a
thesis probably nobody in this audience
would be surprised to hear yep there are
gay people who are so inculcate ofwith
religion that they choose to pretend
that they're straight and as a result
they're miserable end of story not the
end of the story what's really
interesting with this anecdote is there
was sort of a letter-writing campaign
and to my knowledge some of these
letters were published in the newspapers
in Ireland from homosexuals in Ireland
some of whom participated in this study
some of our people who have been
interviewed by this anthropologist or
you know observed and discussed in this
book by the Santa poets and they step
forward and said not so fast what you're
saying here is really shallow and really
judgmental and really wrong and some of
these homosexuals again it might have
been two or three people I don't know
I'm not saying it's a huge number but
some of them step four said hey there's
more to life than sex and sexuality who
are you to say that I'm miserable if
this is how I choose to live my life you
know maybe they're perfectly happy that
way maybe they value other things in
their life whether you think of those as
spiritual or otherwise they step forward
and say hey wait we have the right to
live our lives in our term you think
could say to rephrase well that they
could say look if you say you tolerate
homosexuality then you also have to
tolerate or respect homosexuals who
choose to live in the way that they did
which again to my knowledge involved
celibacy if not Oh
right self-hatred when I was a much much
younger man I would have agreed with the
thesis that tolerating gay people
includes also tolerating gay people who
wish to appear publicly as straight you
know gay people who would prefer to wear
the mask or for example a gay man who
would prefer to have some kind of
arrangement with a straight woman where
they get married even though they
they're a layer this guy is gay that you
know that also has to be embraced that
also has to be tolerated I would have
argued this is known as a much younger
man that you know people like Lindsey
Graham their sexuality is valid to their
sense of identity spell it - and even if
it seems kind of perverse and weird for
people to publicly maintain the facade
of being heterosexual while privately
they're homosexual that certainly has a
tradition of many centuries and that
even though we're taking away the
persecution of homosexuals which of
course goes back to the dark ages it
goes back to antiquity to some extent um
even though when I was taking with a
prostitution and we're now gonna embrace
and tolerate the gay identity is normal
that doesn't mean that we should
therefore force an overt gay identity on
those who would prefer to remain covert
that that's cool - I have lost this
enlightened perspective just with the
kind of peculiar experience that
accumulates as you get older in life you
know you get to know couples where a
straight woman married a gay man and in
a really subtle and perverse way living
with the lie ruined everyone's life in
that family even though you know from my
perspective being gay is not something
to lie about it's not something to
conceal it's not something you should
have this kind of guilt about but people
do and people involve a whole broader
family unit they involve all these other
people in lying about it and I think
it's actually profoundly destructive it
doesn't just result in the gay person
himself living a worse life it can be
devastating for a large number of other
lives
connected to him I remember an interview
with a female basketball player so she
was a white woman you know I remember
her being more than six feet tall but I
forget and she had been a career female
basketball player and she had married a
male basketball player and that Vasko
Clair at that time this is now over
seven years ago he stepped forward and
more or less claimed the title of the
first openly gay player in basketball
now whether or not he was really the
first openly gay player in American
basically basketball I think that can be
contested does does it go to Dennis
Rodman you know there are some questions
he hurt it's Dennis Rodman count only
it's bisexual or something anyway but at
anyway he was one of the first men in
the NBA to step forward and say that he
was gay he'd been gay all his life but
the woman being interviewed had been his
wife and she had the honesty to come
forward and say hey look I know
everyone's padding this guy in the back
and is happy for him because now he's
coming out of the closet now he's
declaring the openly he's gay
but here are the impacts on my life and
for her it really meant that she lost
her opportunity to have children and
that for I think decades I'm sorry I
forget how long their marriage lasted
but for her her personal life her family
life her whole world revolved around
what was ultimately living a lie what
was ultimately helping this guy with
unbeknownst to her what was helping this
guy project an image of macho Ness and
heterosexuality but obviously he felt at
the time was crucial to his career as a
basketball player or what have you or
maybe he also had religious reasons he
wanted to seem that he was married and
straight when he went to church or in
front of his parents grandparents
cousins what have you I'm sure there
were various elements of ego but I mean
really when that marriage came to an end
and she was getting a divorce and then
her husband is finally admitting to
himself in the world that he's gay this
is at unbelievably negative consequences
for her and you know the negative
consequence for the person who
is to live a lie it may be harder to
trace
but again I'm now in my 40s I've known
enough people up close and personal who
lived a lie in terms of their sexuality
maybe most often of all and the
corrosive effect in your character at
the cross effect on all elements if your
life it's difficult to exaggerate you
know it's it's really difficult to
communicate to someone who's younger and
hasn't had that kind of experience just
how corrosive and negative the influence
is of someone living in a lie maybe in
connection to their sexuality most of
all right but we're still at a turning
point in the culture right I think
nobody is yet wanting to commit to
saying that somebody like Lindsey Graham
has an absolute moral obligation to live
their life honestly and openly as a
homosexual all times nobody's willing to
say that you have a an obligation as a
civil servant or as a politician to make
your private life public in that way
nobody's going to say that you know your
your politics has to be consistent with
your private first sexual life and
nobody said that to Bill Clinton back
when Bill Clinton was getting into
trouble for his sex life and nobody has
quite yet said it to Lindsey Graham and
so the campaign now of a group of male
sex workers to expose Lindsey Graham I
think is not so much momentous
historical or meaningful just in
exposing the possibility that Lindsey
Graham is homosexual allegedly I think
it's really important in leading us to
ask the question you know as we more and
more accept homosexuality as somebody's
primary public identities we accept gay
marriage as we accept you know the life
in society publicly we just had someone
running for president States for the
Democrat Party who's openly homosexual
one openly in a gay marriage that
you know we now do have openly gay
politicians along with openly gay
athletes and all manner of celebrities
and what-have-you but at what point does
that openness not merely become an
option but become an obligation at what
point is it that we turn to people at
Lindsey Graham say no no no no you know
you don't get to choose to be a fake
heterosexual you actually do have a kind
of moral obligation maybe it's to
society maybe it's not vacation to
yourself to be authentic and open about
this particular thing I think that's a
necessary implication of the triumph of
the gay rights movement over the last
several decades but it's an implication
that broadly speaking our society none
of us are quite comfortable with yet
because if you as a politician have to
say to the public that you're gay but
for one thing that may impact your
ability to be elected in let's see
Fran's case but of course the other
thing we all know is if Lindsey Graham
has to say that to the people who vote
for him it means he set has to say that
- he has grandmother - his mother - his
cousin his aunts and uncles and people
don't want to impose on Lindsey Graham
in particular on gay people who choose
to live in the clause in general they
don't want to impose that disruption to
the family to the personal life permit
but on the other hand we know when you
scale it up when you talk about a
society of millions exactly what you're
trying to pause we motivate people to do
is say hey stand up tell your parents
tell your grandparents if you're a
politician tell your constituents not
all gay people are left-wing somewhere
right wing you know not all gay people
are atheists some are Christians but
like if you don't stand up if you can't
stand up and do this for yourself maybe
we have to ask you to stand up and do
this appealing to your sense of
magnanimity asking you what kind of
society in the future do you want to be
a part of because it's best for all of
us a society if you can stand up if you
can challenge the bigotry and ignorance
of your own family because even if they
react really negatively in that moment
they're going to come away
with it with that memory oh yeah you
know you know Uncle Lindsey you know you
know homosexuals they aren't something
far off there aren't somebody you've
never met there were homosexual
electricity home family even if you
don't know it yet
you know you have homosexual co-workers
if you don't know yet by making it known
you know that ultimately is the
necessary path to having a truly
inclusive and truly tolerant society I
don't think we can have tolerance based
on secrecy and the knock-on effects of
living a lie for the person living in
the closet himself for the members of
their family it's really just difficult
to convey how corrosive that can be